---
published: true
title: A Correspondence Course for Blog Writing?
layout: post
tags: [blog]
---
I'll admit it: as a child, I used to make fun of correspondence courses: they somehow didn't seem a serious way to learn. Growing up in Belgium, I naturally read a lot of [Franco-Belgian comics](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Franco-Belgian_comics) and every so often those included a joke about correspondence courses. Usually someone would need mouth-to-mouth resuscitation, one character would say to another character "Hey X, didn't you say you learned how to do mouth-to-mouth resuscitation" to which X would mumble "it was only a correspondence course".

However, sometimes things change. I recently decided to start this blog to write about Behaviour Driven Development, and when my former colleague [G치sp치r Nagy](http://gasparnagy.com/) wrote [about an online blog course](http://gasparnagy.com/2016/01/blogging-under-pressure/), I was intrigued. I thought "when G치sp치r, whom I like and respect, thinks that this is somehow worth it, then it can't be all that bad. Maybe I can learn from it as well." 

The course in question is by John Sonmez of [http://simpleprogammer.com](http://t.dripemail2.org/c/eyJhY2NvdW50X2lkIjoiOTUyNDk2NiIsImRlbGl2ZXJ5X2lkIjoiMTA2ODk5ODk0IiwidXJsIjoiaHR0cDovL3NpbXBsZXByb2dyYW1tZXIuY29tP3V0bV9zb3VyY2U9aG93LXRvLWNyZWF0ZS1hLWJsb2ctdGhhdC1ib29zdHMteW91ci1jYXJlZXItY291cnNlXHUwMDI2dXRtX21lZGl1bT1lbWFpbFx1MDAyNnV0bV9jYW1wYWlnbj1sZXNzb24tNS1kby15b3Uta25vdy1ob3ctdG8tZ2V0LXRyYWZmaWMtZm9yLXlvdXItYmxvZ1x1MDAyNl9fcz1wb2Joa3FvM285bTl2OW1pYnppdSJ9), and it's free (as in free beer). If you want, you can buy the accompanying course book for a very modest price, but that is entirely optional.

I signed up at [http://devcareerboost.com/blog-course/](http://t.dripemail2.org/c/eyJhY2NvdW50X2lkIjoiOTUyNDk2NiIsImRlbGl2ZXJ5X2lkIjoiMTA2ODk5ODk0IiwidXJsIjoiaHR0cDovL2RldmNhcmVlcmJvb3N0LmNvbS9ibG9nLWNvdXJzZS8_dXRtX3NvdXJjZT1ob3ctdG8tY3JlYXRlLWEtYmxvZy10aGF0LWJvb3N0cy15b3VyLWNhcmVlci1jb3Vyc2VcdTAwMjZ1dG1fbWVkaXVtPWVtYWlsXHUwMDI2dXRtX2NhbXBhaWduPWxlc3Nvbi01LWRvLXlvdS1rbm93LWhvdy10by1nZXQtdHJhZmZpYy1mb3IteW91ci1ibG9nXHUwMDI2X19zPXBvYmhrcW8zbzltOXY5bWlieml1In0) and soon received the first lesson in my inbox. I found it well constructed, and it went right ahead and challenged my preconceptions. I like that, because that is how I learn. There was a bit of home work as well. I replied with the results of my homework, and received a reply back from John.

The following lessons followed that pattern, and at some point my scepticism towards correspondence courses vanished. That means I enjoyed a double learning effect from this course: firstly I learned some very helpful things about running a successful blog, and secondly (a meta-learning effect if you will) I learned that correspondence courses can be a valid way to learn. I recommend this course if you want to learn in any of these two areas.